docs/docs/self-host/env.mdx, before:

---
title: Environment Variables
description: Learn how to set environment variables for your self hosted version of GrowthBook
id: environment-variables
slug: env
---

# Environment Variables

The default configuration in GrowthBook is optimized for trying things out quickly on a local dev machine. Beyond that, you can customize behavior with Environment Variables.

## Domains and Ports

This is used to generate links to GrowthBook and enable CORS access to the API.

- **APP_ORIGIN** - default http://localhost:3000
- **API_HOST** - default http://localhost:3100

If you want to run GrowthBook on a different host than localhost, you need to add the above environment
variables to your `docker-compose.yml` file.

```yml
growthbook:
  ...
  environment:
    - APP_ORIGIN=http://<my ip>:3000
    - API_HOST=http://<my ip>:3100
```

:::info Unique ports on the same domain
The back-end and the front-end **must run on unique ports if on the same domain**.

The front-end has its own set of `/api` routes so currently we do not support running both the API and the front-end on the same port on the same domain.
:::

:::info Important
In order for authentication cookies to work correctly, both the app and api domains must be considered the &quot;same
site&quot;. They can be on different subdomains or ports, but the root domain must be the same.

  <ul>
    <li>
      <strong>Works:</strong> <code>gb.example.com</code> and{" "}
      <code>gb-api.example.com</code>
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>Breaks:</strong> <code>gb.frontend.com</code> and{" "}
      <code>gb.backend.com</code>
    </li>
  </ul>
:::

If you need to change the ports on your local dev environment (e.g. if `3000` is already being used),
you need to update the above variables AND change the port mapping in `docker-compose.yml`:

```yml
growthbook:
  ports:
    - "4000:3000" # example: use 4000 instead of 3000 for the app
    - "4100:3100" # example: use 4100 instead of 3100 for the api
  ...
  environment:
    - APP_ORIGIN=http://<my ip or url>:4000
    - API_HOST=http://<my ip or url>:4100
```

If you for some reason have a **PORT** environment variable set,
you need to set the **BACKEND_PORT** variable to `3100` to avoid port conflicts.

### Production Settings

- **NODE_ENV** - Set to "production" to turn on additional optimizations and API request logging
- **MONGODB_URI** - The full MongoDB connection string. Alternatively you can specify the following environment variables from which we will compose the full connection string like so `mongodb://${MONGODB_USERNAME}:${MONGODB_PASSWORD}@${MONGODB_HOSTNAME}:${MONGODB_PORT}/${MONGODB_DBNAME}${MONGODB_EXTRA_ARGS}`:
  - **MONGODB_USERNAME** - Username for MongoDB
  - **MONGODB_PASSWORD** - Password for MongoDB
  - **MONGODB_HOST** - Host name of MongoDB excluding port, e.g. `some.host.com`
  - **MONGODB_PORT** - Port to use for MongoDB (defaults to `27017`)
  - **MONGODB_DBNAME** - Database name of growthbook database (defaults to `growthbook`)
  - **MONGODB_EXTRA_ARGS** - Optional set of extra arguments for MongoDB connection string (defaults to <span style={{whiteSpace:'nowrap'}}>`?authSource=admin`</span>)
- **JWT_SECRET** - Auth signing key (use a long random string)
- **ENCRYPTION_KEY** - Data source credential encryption key (use a long random string)

If you change the `ENCRYPTION_KEY`, you will need to migrate any existing data sources using the following script:

```bash
# If you didn't have an ENCRYPTION_KEY before, leave OLD_KEY blank below
docker compose run growthbook yarn migrate-encryption-key OLD_KEY
```

:::info Important
When using GrowthBook in production, it is important to change the

  <code>NODE_ENV</code> to to "production" and change the
  <code>JWT_SECRET</code> to a random string. Using the <code>production</code>
  node environment and the default <code>JWT_SECRET</code> will throw an error.
:::

## Email SMTP Settings

This is required in order to send experiment alerts, team member invites, and reset password emails.

- **EMAIL_ENABLED** ("true" or "false")
- **EMAIL_HOST**
- **EMAIL_PORT**
- **EMAIL_HOST_USER**
- **EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD**
- **EMAIL_FROM**

## Google OAuth Settings

Only required if using Google Analytics as a data source

- **GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID**
- **GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET**

## File Uploads

The **UPLOAD_METHOD** environment variable controls where to store uploaded files
and screenshots. The supported values are `local`, `s3`, and `google-cloud`.

### local

This is the default value. Uploads are stored in the GrowthBook docker container at
`/usr/local/src/app/packages/back-end/uploads`. In production, you should mount a volume here to persist uploads across container restarts.

### s3

Store uploads in an AWS S3 bucket.

- **S3_BUCKET**
- **S3_REGION** (defaults to `us-east-1`)
- **S3_DOMAIN** (defaults to `https://${S3_BUCKET}.s3.amazonaws.com/`)
- **AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID** (not required when deployed to AWS with an instance role)
- **AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY** (not required when deployed to AWS with an instance role)
- **AWS_ASSUME_ROLE** (optional role to assume, that has `s3:PutObject` and `s3:GetObject` to the bucket)

### google-cloud

Store uploads in a Google Cloud Storage bucket.

- **GCS_BUCKET_NAME**
- **GCS_DOMAIN** (defaults to `https://storage.googleapis.com/${GCS_BUCKET_NAME}/`)
- **GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS** (not required when deployed to GCP with an instance service account)

## OpenAI Key

If you want to use the AI features in GrowthBook, you will need to set the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable to your
OpenAI API key. This is required for the AI features to work, such as generating experiment descriptions, checking
hypothesis validity, and detecting similar experiments. See more on the [AI Integrations page](/integrations/ai).

## Enterprise Settings

Some features in self-hosted GrowthBook are only available with a commercial license key. You can get a trial
Enterprise key from your self-hosted version of GrowthBook, or reach out to [sales@growthbook.io](mailto:sales@growthbook.io) to learn more.

### License Keys

If you have a license key, you can activate it in GrowthBook two different ways:

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **General** and look for the License section of the page. There you can input or edit your license key string. (Recommended)
2. Alternately, set the environment variable `LICENSE_KEY` to your license key string. If using Docker, go to _docker-compose.yml_ and add the variable to the _growthbook_ → _environment_ section.

:::note License verification
If you are running your application behind a firewall you will need to whitelist `75.2.109.47` to be able to have your license verified. If this is an issue,
contact sales@growthbook.io for an air-gapped license.
:::

The GrowthBook app will check with the license server daily to get the latest license information. When doing so, it will send the following data to our license server:

- **A hash of each user's email** - this is used to deduplicate users across multiple installations (dev, prod, etc.) in order to figure out how many seats are being used.
- **The git sha and date of the installation** - this is used to determine when GrowthBook can delete deprecated features, determine who to send upgrade notices to, provides helpful information for debugging, etc.
- **A list of which data source types are being used, a list of which event trackers are being used, and a list of SDK languages being used** - these help GrowthBook know how much usage the various data sources, event trackers, and sdk languages are getting so we can prioritize work.

If you recently upgraded your license and do not want to wait a day to get the new license information you can go to **Settings** → **General** and look for the License section of the page and click the Refresh button.
If you have a multi-org installation and are a super admin you must instead navigate to the **Settings** → **Admin** page, find the license section and click the refresh button there.

### Enterprise SSO

To enable SSO on your self-hosted GrowthBook instance, you will need an active license key (see above section), and
then you may add the SSO settings for your provider. You can find the instructions on how to setup SSO for GrowthBook
with most common providers on our [SSO instructions page](/sso). The JSON object with the settings will need to be JSON
encoded and then set to the environment variable `SSO_CONFIG`.

### Multi-org

If your company has two or more largely independent products (e.g. Google has Search and Google Docs), you can set up multiple [organizations](/using/growthbook-best-practices#organizations) per product. The following env vars control multi-org settings:

- **IS_MULTI_ORG** - This defaults to `false`. Set this to true if you want to enable multiple organizations.
- **ALLOW_SELF_ORG_CREATION** - This defaults to `false`. Set this to true to allow any users to create new organizations.
- **SHOW_MULTI_ORG_SELF_SELECTOR** - This defaults to `true`. It allows all users to see a list of all organizations they can join. Upon selecting an organization, users will either automatically join it (if using SSO and [self-join](/account/user-permissions#self-registering-and-automatic-approvals) is enabled for that organization) or require an admin's approval.

## Observability (OpenTelemetry)

The GrowthBook API is instrumented with OpenTelemetry to publish observability metrics, traces, and logs.

To enable, you must change the Docker CMD from the default `yarn start` to `yarn start:with-tracing`.

The standard [OTEL\_\* Environment Variables](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/sdk-configuration/) are supported, such as `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` and `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`.

Logs collection is supported but disabled by default. You can set the `GROWTHBOOK_OTEL_ENABLE_LOGS_COLLECTION` environment variable to enable it.

## Other Settings

- **EXPERIMENT_REFRESH_FREQUENCY** - Default update schedule for experiment results. Update when stale for X hours (default `6`).
- **QUERY_CACHE_TTL_MINS** - How long (in minutes) to cache and re-use SQL query results (default `60`)
- **DEFAULT_CONVERSION_WINDOW_HOURS** - How many hours after being put into an experiment does a user have to convert. Can be overridden on a per-metric basis. (default `72`)
- **DISABLE_TELEMETRY** - We collect anonymous telemetry data to help us improve GrowthBook. Set to "true" to disable.
- **STORE_SEGMENTS_IN_MONGO** - If using the config.yml file, set to `true` if you want to store segments in Mongo. This is also useful if you have existing segments stored in Mongo that you need to access. When set, GrowthBook will ignore segments in the config.yml file and only use Segments stored in Mongo.
- **CDN_HOST** - When set, this will update the implementation instructions within GrowthBook to override the `API_HOST` in cases where a CDN is used.
- **EXPRESS_TRUST_PROXY_OPTS** - Express' [trust proxy](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html#trust.proxy.options.table) setting value. Supports boolean (true/false), string values, and integer values for trusting the _n_<sup>th</sup> hop from the front-facing proxy server as the client. Leave empty or specify `false` to use Express' default behavior. If you are running GrowthBook behind a proxy or load balancer, this is required to track the correct user IP for audit log events.
- **ROBOTS_TXT_PATH** - Define an absolute path to a robots.txt file that will be served on the `/robots.txt` path of your backend domain. If this env var is not defined, the app will look for a robots.txt file in the parent folder of the built `server.js` (which should be the `packages/back-end` directory in the default configuration)
- **DISABLE_API_ROOT_PATH** - We include a default path in the API server to expose certain settings. Set to "true" to withhold that information. The Visual Editor however relies on the information in this path, so disabling it will prevent some of its features from working correctly.

Commit message:

add other providers and models

docs/docs/self-host/env.mdx, after:

---
title: Environment Variables
description: Learn how to set environment variables for your self hosted version of GrowthBook
id: environment-variables
slug: env
---

# Environment Variables

The default configuration in GrowthBook is optimized for trying things out quickly on a local dev machine. Beyond that, you can customize behavior with Environment Variables.

## Domains and Ports

This is used to generate links to GrowthBook and enable CORS access to the API.

- **APP_ORIGIN** - default http://localhost:3000
- **API_HOST** - default http://localhost:3100

If you want to run GrowthBook on a different host than localhost, you need to add the above environment
variables to your `docker-compose.yml` file.

```yml
growthbook:
  ...
  environment:
    - APP_ORIGIN=http://<my ip>:3000
    - API_HOST=http://<my ip>:3100
```

:::info Unique ports on the same domain
The back-end and the front-end **must run on unique ports if on the same domain**.

The front-end has its own set of `/api` routes so currently we do not support running both the API and the front-end on the same port on the same domain.
:::

:::info Important
In order for authentication cookies to work correctly, both the app and api domains must be considered the &quot;same
site&quot;. They can be on different subdomains or ports, but the root domain must be the same.

  <ul>
    <li>
      <strong>Works:</strong> <code>gb.example.com</code> and{" "}
      <code>gb-api.example.com</code>
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>Breaks:</strong> <code>gb.frontend.com</code> and{" "}
      <code>gb.backend.com</code>
    </li>
  </ul>
:::

If you need to change the ports on your local dev environment (e.g. if `3000` is already being used),
you need to update the above variables AND change the port mapping in `docker-compose.yml`:

```yml
growthbook:
  ports:
    - "4000:3000" # example: use 4000 instead of 3000 for the app
    - "4100:3100" # example: use 4100 instead of 3100 for the api
  ...
  environment:
    - APP_ORIGIN=http://<my ip or url>:4000
    - API_HOST=http://<my ip or url>:4100
```

If you for some reason have a **PORT** environment variable set,
you need to set the **BACKEND_PORT** variable to `3100` to avoid port conflicts.

### Production Settings

- **NODE_ENV** - Set to "production" to turn on additional optimizations and API request logging
- **MONGODB_URI** - The full MongoDB connection string. Alternatively you can specify the following environment variables from which we will compose the full connection string like so `mongodb://${MONGODB_USERNAME}:${MONGODB_PASSWORD}@${MONGODB_HOSTNAME}:${MONGODB_PORT}/${MONGODB_DBNAME}${MONGODB_EXTRA_ARGS}`:
  - **MONGODB_USERNAME** - Username for MongoDB
  - **MONGODB_PASSWORD** - Password for MongoDB
  - **MONGODB_HOST** - Host name of MongoDB excluding port, e.g. `some.host.com`
  - **MONGODB_PORT** - Port to use for MongoDB (defaults to `27017`)
  - **MONGODB_DBNAME** - Database name of growthbook database (defaults to `growthbook`)
  - **MONGODB_EXTRA_ARGS** - Optional set of extra arguments for MongoDB connection string (defaults to <span style={{whiteSpace:'nowrap'}}>`?authSource=admin`</span>)
- **JWT_SECRET** - Auth signing key (use a long random string)
- **ENCRYPTION_KEY** - Data source credential encryption key (use a long random string)

If you change the `ENCRYPTION_KEY`, you will need to migrate any existing data sources using the following script:

```bash
# If you didn't have an ENCRYPTION_KEY before, leave OLD_KEY blank below
docker compose run growthbook yarn migrate-encryption-key OLD_KEY
```

:::info Important
When using GrowthBook in production, it is important to change the

  <code>NODE_ENV</code> to to "production" and change the
  <code>JWT_SECRET</code> to a random string. Using the <code>production</code>
  node environment and the default <code>JWT_SECRET</code> will throw an error.
:::

## Email SMTP Settings

This is required in order to send experiment alerts, team member invites, and reset password emails.

- **EMAIL_ENABLED** ("true" or "false")
- **EMAIL_HOST**
- **EMAIL_PORT**
- **EMAIL_HOST_USER**
- **EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD**
- **EMAIL_FROM**

## Google OAuth Settings

Only required if using Google Analytics as a data source

- **GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID**
- **GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET**

## File Uploads

The **UPLOAD_METHOD** environment variable controls where to store uploaded files
and screenshots. The supported values are `local`, `s3`, and `google-cloud`.

### local

This is the default value. Uploads are stored in the GrowthBook docker container at
`/usr/local/src/app/packages/back-end/uploads`. In production, you should mount a volume here to persist uploads across container restarts.

### s3

Store uploads in an AWS S3 bucket.

- **S3_BUCKET**
- **S3_REGION** (defaults to `us-east-1`)
- **S3_DOMAIN** (defaults to `https://${S3_BUCKET}.s3.amazonaws.com/`)
- **AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID** (not required when deployed to AWS with an instance role)
- **AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY** (not required when deployed to AWS with an instance role)
- **AWS_ASSUME_ROLE** (optional role to assume, that has `s3:PutObject` and `s3:GetObject` to the bucket)

### google-cloud

Store uploads in a Google Cloud Storage bucket.

- **GCS_BUCKET_NAME**
- **GCS_DOMAIN** (defaults to `https://storage.googleapis.com/${GCS_BUCKET_NAME}/`)
- **GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS** (not required when deployed to GCP with an instance service account)

## AI Provider API Keys

GrowthBook supports multiple AI providers for features like generating experiment descriptions, checking hypothesis validity, and detecting similar experiments. You can configure one or more of the following API keys:

- **OPENAI_API_KEY** - OpenAI API key for GPT models
- **ANTHROPIC_API_KEY** - Anthropic API key for Claude models
- **XAI_API_KEY** - xAI API key for Grok models
- **MISTRAL_API_KEY** - Mistral AI API key
- **GOOGLE_AI_API_KEY** - Google AI API key for Gemini models

You only need to set the API keys for the providers you want to use. Once configured, you can select your preferred model in the AI settings. See more on the [AI Integrations page](/integrations/ai).

## Enterprise Settings

Some features in self-hosted GrowthBook are only available with a commercial license key. You can get a trial
Enterprise key from your self-hosted version of GrowthBook, or reach out to [sales@growthbook.io](mailto:sales@growthbook.io) to learn more.

### License Keys

If you have a license key, you can activate it in GrowthBook two different ways:

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **General** and look for the License section of the page. There you can input or edit your license key string. (Recommended)
2. Alternately, set the environment variable `LICENSE_KEY` to your license key string. If using Docker, go to _docker-compose.yml_ and add the variable to the _growthbook_ → _environment_ section.

:::note License verification
If you are running your application behind a firewall you will need to whitelist `75.2.109.47` to be able to have your license verified. If this is an issue,
contact sales@growthbook.io for an air-gapped license.
:::

The GrowthBook app will check with the license server daily to get the latest license information. When doing so, it will send the following data to our license server:

- **A hash of each user's email** - this is used to deduplicate users across multiple installations (dev, prod, etc.) in order to figure out how many seats are being used.
- **The git sha and date of the installation** - this is used to determine when GrowthBook can delete deprecated features, determine who to send upgrade notices to, provides helpful information for debugging, etc.
- **A list of which data source types are being used, a list of which event trackers are being used, and a list of SDK languages being used** - these help GrowthBook know how much usage the various data sources, event trackers, and sdk languages are getting so we can prioritize work.

If you recently upgraded your license and do not want to wait a day to get the new license information you can go to **Settings** → **General** and look for the License section of the page and click the Refresh button.
If you have a multi-org installation and are a super admin you must instead navigate to the **Settings** → **Admin** page, find the license section and click the refresh button there.

### Enterprise SSO

To enable SSO on your self-hosted GrowthBook instance, you will need an active license key (see above section), and
then you may add the SSO settings for your provider. You can find the instructions on how to setup SSO for GrowthBook
with most common providers on our [SSO instructions page](/sso). The JSON object with the settings will need to be JSON
encoded and then set to the environment variable `SSO_CONFIG`.

### Multi-org

If your company has two or more largely independent products (e.g. Google has Search and Google Docs), you can set up multiple [organizations](/using/growthbook-best-practices#organizations) per product. The following env vars control multi-org settings:

- **IS_MULTI_ORG** - This defaults to `false`. Set this to true if you want to enable multiple organizations.
- **ALLOW_SELF_ORG_CREATION** - This defaults to `false`. Set this to true to allow any users to create new organizations.
- **SHOW_MULTI_ORG_SELF_SELECTOR** - This defaults to `true`. It allows all users to see a list of all organizations they can join. Upon selecting an organization, users will either automatically join it (if using SSO and [self-join](/account/user-permissions#self-registering-and-automatic-approvals) is enabled for that organization) or require an admin's approval.

## Observability (OpenTelemetry)

The GrowthBook API is instrumented with OpenTelemetry to publish observability metrics, traces, and logs.

To enable, you must change the Docker CMD from the default `yarn start` to `yarn start:with-tracing`.

The standard [OTEL\_\* Environment Variables](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/sdk-configuration/) are supported, such as `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` and `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`.

Logs collection is supported but disabled by default. You can set the `GROWTHBOOK_OTEL_ENABLE_LOGS_COLLECTION` environment variable to enable it.

## Other Settings

- **EXPERIMENT_REFRESH_FREQUENCY** - Default update schedule for experiment results. Update when stale for X hours (default `6`).
- **QUERY_CACHE_TTL_MINS** - How long (in minutes) to cache and re-use SQL query results (default `60`)
- **DEFAULT_CONVERSION_WINDOW_HOURS** - How many hours after being put into an experiment does a user have to convert. Can be overridden on a per-metric basis. (default `72`)
- **DISABLE_TELEMETRY** - We collect anonymous telemetry data to help us improve GrowthBook. Set to "true" to disable.
- **STORE_SEGMENTS_IN_MONGO** - If using the config.yml file, set to `true` if you want to store segments in Mongo. This is also useful if you have existing segments stored in Mongo that you need to access. When set, GrowthBook will ignore segments in the config.yml file and only use Segments stored in Mongo.
- **CDN_HOST** - When set, this will update the implementation instructions within GrowthBook to override the `API_HOST` in cases where a CDN is used.
- **EXPRESS_TRUST_PROXY_OPTS** - Express' [trust proxy](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html#trust.proxy.options.table) setting value. Supports boolean (true/false), string values, and integer values for trusting the _n_<sup>th</sup> hop from the front-facing proxy server as the client. Leave empty or specify `false` to use Express' default behavior. If you are running GrowthBook behind a proxy or load balancer, this is required to track the correct user IP for audit log events.
- **ROBOTS_TXT_PATH** - Define an absolute path to a robots.txt file that will be served on the `/robots.txt` path of your backend domain. If this env var is not defined, the app will look for a robots.txt file in the parent folder of the built `server.js` (which should be the `packages/back-end` directory in the default configuration)
- **DISABLE_API_ROOT_PATH** - We include a default path in the API server to expose certain settings. Set to "true" to withhold that information. The Visual Editor however relies on the information in this path, so disabling it will prevent some of its features from working correctly.
